This dataset is undertaken to create a predictive model for the transfer values of football players. We will utilize data from football players and construct a model to predict transfer fees based on that data. Player data includes basic information such as age, height, playing position, as well as professional statistics like goal scoring, assists (in 2 season 2021-2022 and 2022-2023), injuries, along with total individual and team awards in their career.

We had gathered information on players competing in several top-tier global football leagues:

11 European leagues, including the Premier League and Championship in England, Bundesliga in Germany, La Liga in Spain, Serie A in Italy, Ligue 1 in France, Eredivisie in the Netherlands, Liga NOS in Portugal, Premier Liga in Russia, Super Lig in Turkey, and Bundesliga in Austria.

4 American leagues, including Brasileiro in Brazil, Major League Soccer in the United States, Primera División in Argentina, and Liga MX in Mexico.

1 African league, namely the DStv Premiership in South Africa.

4 Asian leagues, comprising J-League in Japan, Saudi Pro League in Saudi Arabia, K-League 1 in South Korea, and A-League in Australia.

This data contains 21 columns

player                 
team                   
name                   
position               
height                 
age                    
appearance             
goals                  
assists                
yellow cards           
second yellow cards    
red cards              
goals conceded         
clean sheets           
minutes played         
days_injured           
games_injured          
award                  
current_value          
highest_value          
position_encoded       
winger


This dataset was generated by scraping data from Transfermarkt using Selenium and BeautifulSoup on June 10, 2023. To enhance the evaluation of the prediction model, the statistics, namely "goals," "assists," "yellow cards," "second yellow cards," "red cards," "goals conceded," and "clean sheets," were transformed to a per 90 minutes basis. This transformation involved dividing each statistical value by the corresponding per 90 value (calculated as minutes played divided by 90).

Following Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA), we pinpointed a selection of variables demonstrating a strong correlation with the target variable 'current_value.' These variables comprise 'highest_value', 'appearance', 'minutes played', 'award', 'assists', 'goals' and 'position_encoded'. Leveraging these variables can markedly improve models efficiency, contrasting with the indiscriminate inclusion of all variables.